# ASP.NET Core Development Workshop with CI/CD

## Notes:

Consider updating all our .NET Core apps to Core 3.0 or 3.1 as soon as it's out.

.NET Core 2.1 support will end after a couple years
	- 20-25 hours per project to move to 3.0 from 2.x



## .NET Core Knowledge:

### Logging: 

All pieces of an application output to a single logging stream.  It's important to keep an eye on these logs because of this. You might see Warnings that could indicate an improper setup or implementation. 

### ASP.NET Core Identity

Amazing out-of-the-box for auth/authorization in the app

Set-up is GREAT when you use the wizard during project set-up (but you can't run the wizard after project creation). So getting ahead of the game about "identity" and "auth" for an app will be helpful for app setups

### .NET Core 3.0

- Will be able to migrate WinForms applications to .NET Core 3.0

#### Building The App

- "Areas" folder (this folder will disappear in 3.0

#### Caching:

- app/services.UseResponseCaching()  - Middleware setup for a shared cache between different users. It's server-side caching. 

## Azure DevOps

###  Boards

- Full agile project management
- Ability to flow-through issues
  - Create An Issue
		
- Stakeholder accounts are free

### Pipelines (Build)

- Build Processes
    - Any language
    - Source repos: Azure DevOps, GitHub, etc.
    - Multiple steps & complex workflows supported
- Build Location
    - Azure hosted - In the Cloud
    - Local Hosted - On- Site
- Artifact Publishing
- PR/ Merging Builds

### Pipeline (Release)
- Takes input of artifact
- Automatic or manual
    - Branch limitations
- Token Replacement
- Approvals
    - Manual Approval
    - Tiered Approvals
    - On Success of Prior
- Delay/Scheduled
    - Set time possible

### Environments
- Connector allowing local environments to be deployed to from Azure
- Requires a Powershell script to set-up

### Costs
- A lot for free (especially with MSDN licenses)
- Reasonable costs as you scale up


